# SCP-049

**Name:** SCP-049
**Description:** "An archaic plague doctor with the sole intent of “curing” those ridden with the “pestilence”. Contact means death, but only momentarily; you may find that one of the side effects of the good doctor’s surgery is being denied such an easy end."

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** SCP-049's Containment Chamber, in Heavy Containment Zone.
**Health:** 1700
**Ability:** Revive recently deceased human classes as SCP-049-2.
**Base Speed:** 6 m/s
**Nickname/s:** Doctor, Plague Doctor

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Gameplay Description:**

SCP-049 is a force to be reckoned with. He is one of the most powerful SCPs in the game, able to kill enemies with only a single click. On top of that, he can turn people who he kills into zombies, giving him the ability to create a zombie army, as there is no limit to how many zombies 049 can have. People can be resurrected within 10 seconds of dying, which the process taking 7 seconds. 049 can still attack while doing this. The Plague Doctor is able to take a fair amount of damage before going down. Though, 049's zombies are supposed to act as meat shields. SCP-049 is on the slow side, but not as slow as 096. 049's footsteps are slow and have a very unique sound, meaning other humans will hear him coming from a long way away. The zombies can kill enemies in 2 to 3 hits. The lower their health is, the faster they can attack.

SCP-049 is a force to be reckoned with. Starting off fairly weak and slow, he has the potential to be one of the most powerful SCPs in the game, able to kill enemies with only a single hit and resurrect the dead giving him the ability to create a zombie army.



| Light Containment Zone
Due to the low movement speed and amount of time it takes to revive people, SCP-049 is usually one of the last SCPs to enter light containment. Once there, you should act as a sweeper of sorts. Because of the zombies speed on top of your ability to get humans onto your side, it should be farily simple to split up and cover a lot of ground in a short space of time. LCZ is also quite maze-like so an effective strategy can be to get the zombies to chase people back into your waiting arms.

| Heavy Containment Zone
Spawning in the heavy containment zone, SCP-049 is the only SCP with a containment chamber isolated from the rest of its respective zone, accessible only via elevator travel. SCP-049 is quite slow, so it's usually best to try and hide around corners and behind doors to catch people off-guard. As 049 needs 049-2 to become more powerful, it's usually better to immediately head towards the entrance zone and kill the facility guards early on. Once you've resurrected all of them, it should be a lot easier to track down either of the elevator systems and kill stragglers. 049 can only revive people that died in the last 10 seconds, so keep that in mind before allowing your zombies to go on a killing rampage. It is usually quite effective to make them lead the victims back to you. One big thing to be mindful of is how slow and relatively weak you are. Due to your lack of agility as 049, it is quite easy to get pinned down by gunfire, especially early on in the round. It is also important to note that you should never get overconfident. Instances of 049-2 are quite weak, and even a class-d with subpar aim will be able to take them out given enough time. Strength in numbers will only take you so far. Once you've gather a small group, you should usually start heading down into light containment.

| Entrance Zone
As Entrance Zone is simply a network of coridoors and sharp turns, the best and only strategy here is to hide around corners to get a jump on any enemies you may encounter.

| Surface Zone

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| Zombie Army
Self explanatory. Kill people, turn them into zombies until you have a decent-sized army of them.

| Corner Hugging
Mentioned in SCP 173's tactics, this works for 049 as well. Camp a corner near a door, and as soon as someone passes, go in for the kill. This tactic works better for 049 than 173. Keep in mind that this tactic is not that effective when people check their corners before advancing.

| The Elevator Surprise
If Gate B is open and NTF spawns in, make your way to the elevator ASAP and wait till the NTF take the elevator. As soon as the elevator door opens, immediately rush them before they manage to react. This way, you can effectively wipe out more than half of the NTF most of the time.