# Extra Human vs SCP Info

**NTF**

| SCP-096
SCP-096 is an extremely lethal SCP, and is the common reason why NTF squads get wiped, and for good reason, if the creatures face appears anywhere in your field of view, even in the deep fog, you become a target and increase its AHP by 70 points, and in most cases, NTF travel in large groups, which makes this SCP even more lethal. When on your own, without the Micro H.I.D. you don't stand a chance against a full HP SCP-096 and should be advised to keep your head down to avoid triggering its enraged state. While 096 is enraged, if you are not a target, the best idea is to keep your head down, and stay out of 096's way. It is best to stay out of common hiding spots: I.e. corners of hallways, windows of checkpoints, etc, as it will try to kill non-targets by blindly swinging into these areas. Stay closeby as when it exits the enraged state, it will be on a temporary cooldown where you can utilise this opportunity to get a full clip into it without it being enraged. This will damage the SCP's HP, which doesn't regenerate and will keep you safe from enraging him if you decide to run away afterwards.

However, the Micro H.I.D does a fantastic job at handling 096 as it does a substantial amount of damage and will easily incapacitate 096 before he finishes his windup, so long as the weapon is around halway ready to fire before triggering the SCP, otherwise you might find yourself at a messy disadvantage.

When travelling in a group, SCP-096 uses its terryfing capabilities as its weapon, most NTF that become targets will flee, which is the right thing to do if only 2-4 people become targets, however, a group of 5-6 NTF can easily take down 096 with uninterrupted firing upon it. Since it only gains 70 AHP per person, any weapon can shoot through that additional AHP as well as his 500 AHP on top of that. So long as the 5 people stand strong and don't cower away from fear of 096's capabilities, the group could easily take 096 down before it has the chance to completely finish windup.

| SCP-049 and SCP-049-2
The Plague Doctor is no laughing matter, although fragile, he is still a big threat to NTF. A clever 049 will never charge the NTF directly, but will rather use the close quarters nature of Heavy Containment Zone to its advantage. Picking off lone NTF before they get a chance to shout for help or call out his position over the radio. The Plague Doctor can and will resurrect recently killed humans to serve its team as diversions, direct damage, or as bullet sponges for the more valuable SCPs. Though dangerous with a single lethal touch, the Plague Doctor is slow and can be easily avoided if encountered from a distance.

Keeping tabs on 049 is vital for taking him down, for losing track of the Doctor can mean he can pop of from anywhere and can disappear just as easily in the labyrinth of HCZ. Handling his 'cured' SCP-049-2 is a little bit cumbersome, as they exist to purely waste ammo and medical supplies if they land a hit on you. Being nearly as fast as a sprinting human [without/without body armour] means that simply running away from the 'cured' isn't going to be enough, you will need to take them down efficiently. 

A major weakness 049-2 has is that it's the only SCP that has a headshot vulnerability. With the limited 300 HP, it won't take a lot of headshots to take down a single one. However, 049-2's strength doesn't come from single numbers but rather a large horde of many 'cured' will easily overwhelm you and your team, the easiest way to deal with a large horde of these SCPs is with a couple of grenades, as they may not be able to hear the grenade over the many loud footsteps of their own horde. Grenades will be enough to diminish the horde's size to a handleable amount.

Dealing with 049 is simple enough, a group of 3 NTF keeping their distance from each other as well as the Plague Doctor means that at least one NTF will have the angle to shoot the SCP while also keeping him on his toes, giving the Plague Doctor too many targets at once can overwhelm and take him down. Though often SCP-049 will utilise corners to avoid being lured out, to which NTF will need to utilise grenades to force him out of these corners and into open fire.

| SCP-106
One of the tankiest SCPs, taking only 2 damage per bullet means that shooting this guy to death is going to be very hard with his 650 HP. If you're on your own, your best bet is avoid 106 and to run away if he spots you, 106 is faster than a walking human and can walk through gates and doors making him one of the hardest SCPs to shake off your tail. Though his attack isn't an instakill as long as the warhead hasn't gone off makes surviving 106 a little easier, though ultimately escaping the pocket dimension his attacks send you is pure chance.

106 has two huge flaws, those being his vulnerability to every non-bullet source of damage like tesla gates, the Micro H.I.D. and grenades, as well as the femur breaker which requires as little as 2 people to activate. Finding 106's room is key to defeating him with the femur breaker, an access card with containment level 3 access can enter the femur breaker room, though one player needs to step into the small box located on the back wall in the middle of the room to prime the femur breaker. Once the player enters, the door for that small box will close, killing the player that entered instantly. All that's left to do is press the large red button, which will play the sound of a man screaming to all players. You will still need to avoid 106 until C.A.S.S.I.E announces his recontainment.

Alternatively, it's possible to brute force 106 with a large 15-20 man squad all simultaneously firing upon 106, though this will result in the squad having no more ammo to fight the other SCPs, leaving them vulnerable. It's a better idea to have someone use the Micro H.I.D. while the team fires to cause enough noise to mask the charge up. This way SCP-106 won't be able to hear the deadly weapon meaning he won't be able to run away. Once charged, the weapon will make quick work of 106. If the Micro H.I.D. is otherwise inoperable, using frag grenades can impede or greatly harm 106.