# SCP-106

**Name:** SCP-106
**Description:** "SCP-106 is a pretty useful SCP. His ability to pass through doors is a godsend at times. For example, if there are a number of people who are hiding in SCP-914, 106 can just pass through the gate and kill them. He also can teleport by putting down portals (press TAB)."

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** At the bottom part of SCP-106's Containment Chamber, in Heavy Containment Zone
**Health:** 650 (effective HP against bullets: 6500)
**Abilities:** Teleportation, ability to pass through closed doors, no matter if they're keycard locked.
**Base Speed:** 6 m/s
**Nickname/s:** Larry, Uncle Larry, Black man

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Gameplay Description:**

You are considered a tank for the SCPs. 106 excels at pursuing human prey while also having high mobility because of his portal and can take lots of damage from bullets that the other SCPs can’t.

| Light Containment Zone
This is where the fun begins. The tides of the match depend on what you do in this section. Once you arrive here, there will be a lot of scientists and D-Class scrambling around trying to escape and you can use this to eliminate them swiftly and efficiently. As all SCPs would, they would instantly check the room labeled “#914” which is an upgrade room where you can commonly find groups of D-Class and scientists hiding inside. The door to the room however is locked and cannot be opened by any other SCP except SCP-079 but yet they would most likely have to wait a lengthy time for their power to re-charge and to open the door. You can save a lot of time by passing through the locked door and taking out all the defenseless players inside. They might also even panic and open the door letting your fellow SCPs to finish off the runners. Setting your portal at a checkpoint and frequently teleporting to it can sometimes be effective in catching players who are just about to escape. Be weary about any scientists or D-Class escaping Light containment. They most likely have a keycard that can access your containment chamber, these keycards could be the containment engineer card, the facility manager keycard, or the O5 keycard. If you suspect that any human player has any of these keycards in their possession, then you should make that human a high priority.

| Heavy Containment Zone
You will spawn at the bottom of your containment cell and can walk up a flight of stairs and pass through your containment door into Heavy Containment. There are many strategic spots in Heavy to place your portals in. You can always place one in your Containment to protect from people who will try to contain you, the nuke room silo to deactivate the nuke when needed, 096 chamber which is a place a human player can spawn after escaping your pocket dimension or the light containment elevators to prevent and annoying scientists or D-Class from ever getting to heavy. It is also important to let your fellow SCPs know if human players are trying to enter your containment chamber. Humans can re-contain you if one of them jumps into the femur breaker and another pushes the red button next to your chamber door.

| Entrance Zone
Since all facility guards spawn in Entrance zone, it will be quite helpful for you to take them out first since you can withstand their bullet fire better than any other SCP. If they end up escaping your pocket dimension, they will most likely end up in Light containment which allows you to push them further in the facility to pressure them. You can also set your portal in the Gate B elevator and ambush the MTF before they even get into the facility which saves a lot of trouble for your other fellow SCPs if they are already dealing with other problems.

| Surface Zone
106 doesn’t have the strongest surface game. Since he can’t cover long distances quickly and has a very close ranged attack, it makes it easier for human players to run away and slowly chip away at his health. The only beneficial things that 106 can do on surface is to camp the spawn for MTF and take them out as soon as they spawn or set his portal at the escape exit and teleport back to it when someone is about to escape. However, 106 is a bit stronger when the nuke has gone off while on surface. If the nuke has exploded, then anyone he touches on surface will instantly die instead but that doesn’t fix his other slaws on surface.

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| Support
Given the fact that 106 can walk through doors, 106 can work well as a support SCP, since he isn't that tanky. SCPs do not take any fall damage, so feel free to use that to your advantage on the surface.

| The wrap around
Since 106 can teleport freely to his portals, a common and powerful technique can be to scare someone in a certain direction, and then portal around to intercept them. This method can be very effective against lone guards and scientists, as they will have very little ammunition, so 9/10 will flee.

| Detonation denial
Since 106 can put down portals, he can be a real thorn in the side when it comes to detonating the Alpha warhead. If you put down a portal in the Alpha warhead control room, you can quickly cancel the detonation by teleporting there. The same can be done with the intercom room, which brings hilarious results when someone is using it.
Note: Camping the Alpha warhead control room is often frowned upon. In some servers, it's even forbidden. Camp the control room at your own risk.