# SCP-939

**Name:** SCP-939
**Description:** "A pack-dependent predator that intelligently mimics human voices to deceive and entrap its desired prey. Remember who your allies are. Be wary of who you trust. Don't fall for stray imitations, lest you’re repaid with a bite."

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** At the bottom part of SCP-939's Containment Chamber, in Heavy Containment Zone
**Health:** 2200
**Ability:**
**Base Speed:**
**Nickname/s:** Dog, Funny Lizard

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Gameplay Description:**

SCP-939 attacks by biting the cranium or neck (65hp). This attack also gives the victims amnesia. Amneisa prevents players from reloading or opening their inventories for 3 seconds.

What's special about 939 is that it can voice chat with humans (by pressing V).This means that you can lure people into traps, convince them to open doors, etc... This ability can also be used to effectively communicate with people you've teamed up with. (For example, Chaos Insurgency)

When walking normally, 939 is completely silent. SCP-939 can also sprint, bringing it up to the same speed as a human. This makes evading SCP-939 quite difficult if it's already on your tail. If you don't make any sound, SCP-939 will have a hard time being able to see you, as you become completely invisible to it. Though, if it gets in very close, it can see you even if you don't make any sound. Walking is advised when around this SCP (hold C).

SCP-939 is quite squishy, so caution is advised.

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| Lure
Self explanatory. Use your special ability to pretend that you're human, and kill others.

| Support
This can be a supporting SCP. Stick with your fellow SCPs, and tell where the enemies are, if they make sound. (Reminder, you can even see enemies through walls.)