# SCP-500

**Name:** SCP-500
**Description:** A bottle of pills, each pill inside the bottle is able to cure any illness and disease. These pills are strictly for the O5 council as duplication is currently not known.

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** SCP Item Pedestals
**Abilities:** Healing the user to full HP, applying gradual health regen, removing most debuffs.
**Nicknames:** The Panacea, Pills

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Description:**
This item is extremely useful, but limited. The panacea is faster and more efficient than the medkit.
SCP-500 heals the user by 100 health points and applies a substantial regenerative buff similar to the adrenaline, where it regenerates 100 health points over 9.4 seconds (3.23 seconds for the first 50 and 6.27 seconds for the last 50). Additionally, it cures most debuffs and is quicker to use. It can be used by pressing left click with the item equipped. Unlike the medkit, SCP-500 cannot be cancelled anytime once the animation starts. Since it is an SCP Item, it will only count towards your SCP Item slots, rather than your medical item slots. This means that you could actually have up to 6 healing items at any one time.


**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| A Quick-Fix
Thanks to it's full restore, any injuries can be instantly healed as well as ridding yourself of any status effects. This makes wounds from fights or chases disappear in a quick pinch.

| Combat Advantage
Since it has regenerative properties. Using 500 right before a gunfight can give you the upper hand in health regen. Allowing you to survive more shots, you can fire back and in most cases win.