# SCP-096

**Name:** SCP-096
**Description:** SCP-096 is a mixed bag. If your rage isn't active, you are quite vulnerable, but once raged... Good luck stopping you.

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** SCP-096's Containment Chamber in Heavy Containment Zone
**Health:** 2000 + 1000 hume
**Ability:** When someone looks at you, you enter a rage mode, getting more powerful with each person that looks.
**Base speed:** 4.5 m/s
**Enraged speed:** 12 m/s
**Charge speed:** 25 m/s
**Nickname:** Shy Guy

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Gameplay Description:**

| Passive Abilities
The first thing you'll notice about 096 is the fact that there are two health bars. HP and AHP (hume shield). The HP starts at 2000 and the hume shield at 1000. The hume shield is very special, as it passively regenerates over time at a rate of 25/s after 25 seconds of not taking damage. 096 has one special ability when docile. It is able to lean or doors and gates, almost entirely silencing 096's cries. However, the ripples in the air from the hume shield can be seen through some doors, and you can't move or turn when leaning against it.This means that players looking straight down or at 096's back won't trigger it. Overall, SCP-096's biggest strength is people's inability to act in time, or complete fear once you're enraged, as most people will try to sand still or simply run away. It's best to take advantage of that, and make sure everyone in the room is terrified of what you might do. 096 is one of the most powerful SCPs in the game, and is the only one capable of holding its own against multiple waves of chaos and NTF.
*Note: To lean on the doors in entrance zone, you need to look at the solid part, as the windows aren't counted as an interactive area.*

| Enraged
It becomes enraged whenever anyone views its face. During the enraging period, 096 moves even slower (3 m/s). The time it takes to fully rage depends on how far away the targets are (the further away, the longer it takes). The base rage time for 096 is 15 seconds, with another 3 seconds added on for each person that looks at it during enraging or calming states. This value is capped at 30 seconds, but is still subject to change. Another thing that happens when 096 is enraged,is all non-targets become invisible, with targets being highlighted with large, glowing red orbs which can be seen through walls (SCP-287 will have no affect). Finally, 096's speed massively increases and it can jump very high.

| Swing and Pry
096's primary attack is a swing attack. It will immediately kill all targets, whilst not affecting non-targets in any way. It is an AOE attack, so it more than capabale of killing multiple people along with destroying doors. On the topic of doors, almost all doors can be destroyed in a single swing except under special circumstances where it will require three such as 106's chamber and the surface control room. Prying is 096's secondary ability. To use it, RMB while looking at a gate to briefly force it open. Other SCPs can pass through this gap, although it will kill any humans.

| Charge
Charging is another vital ability for 096 activated with RMB. The charge will more than double your speed, break doors, and kill players (non-targets will only take 40 damage from a charge). The most important thing to note about this ability is the way in which the cooldowns work. The base cooldown for charging is 5 seconds, and killing any player with it will temporarily reduce the cooldown by 3.5 seconds until the next charge. However, this will also increase the base cooldown by one second. In the case that multiple people are killed with by a charge, this temporary reduction and cooldown penalty will only be applied once.

| Light Containment Zone
The light containment zone is a great one for playing as SCP-096. As mentioned on several of the other SCP's pages it is very maze-like, and as such, can be extremely useful. Since most of the people down in light containment will have very few items, they have nowhere to run and nowhere to hide. If you're alone, one of 096's biggest weaknesses will begin to show, as humans can avoid enraging you by simply looking down. While the layout is quite beneficial for you, the lack of of obstacles and environmental hazards allows people to just look down and walk away in most cases.

| Heavy Containment Zone
If played right, a lone 096 will be able to wipe out almost anything that's thrown at it in the heavy containment zone The sharp corners make is really easy to avoid grenades, SCP-018 and more whilst having very limited hiding spaces and long stretches of halls. Once triggered, you should be able to blindly swing down hallways, killing everyone that looked at you. Keep in mind that reinforced doors for areas such as SCP-106's containment cell and checkpoints require three hits to destroy, which will eat into your rage time.

| Entrance Zone
The majority of map layouts for the entrance zone are long stretches of hallways, which allow you to just charge in a straight line and kill everything in your path. This should in theory make it the best area to fight, but this isn't actually the case. NTF, Chaos, or other human classes are able to shoot through open doorways and guarantee hitting you, meaning that strafing is key.

| Surface Zone
SCP-096 is probably one of the most powerful SCPs on the surface. With long stretches of unbroken road and his ability to move faster than any other SCP in game, 096 is quite formidable. NTF waves and Chaos will have little time to react and almost nowhere to run. On top of this, elevated hiding spaces are rendered useless due to your increased jump height whilst enraged. The only thing to remember is that trigger time is relative to the first person's distance. If one human looks at you from across the zone, you'll be exposed and suseptible to attacks for quite a long time.

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| Defensive
A good way to play 096 is to play defensively and carefully. With your slow speed, you won't be able to carry out an offensive. Try and get in a position which would force enemies to look at you.

| Teaming up
As said in 173's description, teaming up with 173 is a good way to make yourself way bigger of a threat. On the other hand, you could stick close to other SCPs.