# SCP-173

**Name:** SCP-173
**Description:** "A mere concrete sculpture, upon first glance. On second glance, you’ll notice it’s somehow closer. There is no third glance — you're dead by then."

### Info:

**Spawn Location:** At the top part of SCP-173's Containment Chamber, in Light Containment Zone
**Health:** 2000hp + 1000ahp
**Ability:** Moves incredibly fast when unobserved. Snapping necks while out of sight or 'blinking' with LMB. 
**Base Speed:** 7.5m/s
**Nickname/s:** Nut, Peanut, Captain Crunch, Matthew

### Gameplay:

**Detailed Gameplay Description:**
You are the Sculpture, a fast-paced SCP built to support your team. Your ludicrous speed makes you the most capable in chasing down targets and repositioning with ease. You are not without weakness, you aren't able to move while in direct line of sight and must wait for humans to blink. Despite this flaw, you can travel 15 meters during a blink and can use this opportunity to snap the necks of humans that get too close to you or to run away from a losing battle. This effectively creates an active area denial around 173 while being looked at. Your objective is to prevent any escapes by killing all other teams. By needing to be looked at to prevent a kill, the sculpture can create deadly chemistry with other SCPs. 

| Passive Abilities
SCP-173 has two passive abilities; Witness, and Reinforced Concrete. Witness is the system that affects how you as SCP-173 can move. Depending on the number of human players staring at you, it can affect its abilities in different ways, primarily being the scaling and cooldowns for other abilities. Reinforced Concrete is an armour system that makes SCP-173 the second SCP in the game to receive a hume shield so far. SCP-173's hume will regenerate at a rate of 10 Artificial Health Points per second, after 10 seconds of not taking damage. It also reduces bullet damage by 60%.

| Tantrum
Tantrum is a powerful ability that creates a 5m (16 foot) wide puddle of fecal matter and blood. It lasts for 180 seconds, has a 30 second cooldown and can only be used when unobserved. While SCPs are immune to it, all human classes that come into contact with the puddle will be given the "Stained" effect, which lasts up to 3 seconds after contact is broken. Stained reduces player speeds by 20% and prevents them from sprinting. On top of this, any player killed by 173 with the Stained effect with give it 100AHP immediately. 

| Blink
Blink is a new system that has been implemented to replace the old blinking mechanics. In the past players would blink every 3 seconds, but with this new system, the player can now have full control. When blinking using the Right Mouse Button, you will move up to 15 meters and kill the closest human to you within a 2 meter radius. By default the ability cooldown for this is 2.5 seconds, but it increases by 1 second for every human observing you.

| Breakneck Speeds
Can be used in combat to quickly close the difference. Can quickly switch off breakneck speeds and get a kill. Use breakneck speeds to blink behind someone, turn around and kill.
Breakneck Speed is a special ability that can be toggled on and off at will. It lasts until someone observes you, at which point you will have 10 seconds to break line of sight, or the ability will be cancelled. After this, it will have a 45 second cooldown. While active it double your movement speed as well as the distance you can blink, with the caveat that you are unable to kill whilst it is still active. In certain cases, skilled players may be able to use this ability to blink behind a human, immediately deactivate it, turn around, and break their neck.

| Light Containment Zone
As the only SCP that spawns in Light Containment Zone, you are the closest to the Class-D and Science Personnel. You start off the round in PT00 with a large door that's initially locked. Once unlocked, you should focus on picking off any humans early on in the round. They can be found en route to SCP-914 or to unique rooms that contain keycards or the COM-15. Due to the labyrinthian layouts of this section, it is quite easy to sneak up behind someone and kill them before anyone else notices. It's best to clear out the common rooms, do a few laps, and then head into the heavy containment zone.

| Heavy Containment Zone
Heavy Containment Zone is an entirely different ball game. Most of the level is compiled of long hallways and sudden turns which can make for very easy kills and getaways. One of the biggest hazards of this zone are the tesla gates, which can kill you in as few as 5 consecutive charges from full health. When passing through them, be aware that a human looking at you is enough to trap you. By this point, you should be grouping up and communicating with your team about strategies as well as locations of targets. Each SCP has their own downside which makes combining them significantly more difficult for humans to take advantage of them. NTF and CI spawns can prove a little challenging as each person looking at you increases your blink cooldown by 1 second. Thanks to your bullet resistance, you're able to easily escape huge groups of armed forces and only lose a lot of regenerative HP. Alternatively, if you're surrounded you can place down a pool and kill 'stained' humans to keep yourself in the fight.

| Entrance Zone/Surface Zone
Due to the mostly open nature of these zones, they should be avoided at all costs. This zone is a series of long corridors for the most part. You can place down pools in choke points or to where humans will go to slow them down and get the jump on them. As 173, you are the least viable class to survive on the surface leaving you completely exposed in the majority of places. However, camping an elevator or hiding around a corner to catch unsuspecting enemies off-guard can prove useful.

**Class Interactions**

| SCP-096
The Shy Guy and The Sculpture create an outstanding team as they create the paradox of needing to look at and away from them at the same time. If they look at the you, then 096 will be triggered. If they don't look at you, you are free to snap their necks. Targets that try looking down at a 45 degree angle limit their view on their surroundings to which you should use to move about unpredictably to confuse them.

| SCP-049
Contrary to popular belief, you make great chemistry with the Plague Doctor. Thanks to your movement mechanics, simply existing in the area near targets spikes fear and forces them to look in your general direction. This allows 049 to move freely without being spotted or injured and picking off unsuspecting targets.

| SCP-939
939's vision improves your ability to position tactically as it can see through walls and feed you information on where targets will be coming from. Since you are far better equipped to chase down targets and close distances, you can team up with 939 to gain his intel and use it to kill targets you didn't even know were there.

| SCP-079
The Computer has an ability that coincides with your movement; the blackout ability. Once it reaches the second access tier, 079 gains the ability to shut off the lights in the room of any zone bar the surface. Any humans in a blacked out room aren't able to 'see' making them easy targets. The computer can also call out humans from anywhere in the map and can give detailed directions to them. Since you are the fastest SCP on average, you're able to cost 079 the least amount of auxiliary power by reaching the target that it would have likely trapped with locked doors the quickest.

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

| Sneaky sneaky!
As SCP-173, you'll most likely want to be sneaky and remain out of sight, as being looked at renders you entirely powerless in many situations. For this playstyle to work, you must have a basic understand of positioning and game sense to predict where targets will be and act accordingly. This can also work with hiding behind doors, waiting inside elevators, and moving up the raised sides of heavy containment. Rooms such as servers, airlocks and elevated offices are perfect hiding spots for 173.

With the new mechanics now in game, it is far easier to play 173 as an assassin. By utilising breakneck speeds, you're able to blink much further than usual, and tantrum puddles can serve as distractions due to their distinct noise. A good strategy here would be to lay down a puddle behind a doorway and hide in the opposite direction from it, waiting for the sloshy footsteps to strike.

| Corner hugging
Due to the way line of sight is calculated in game via the torso, you can sometimes move whilst being observed as SCP-173. The most common and effective way to utilise this is by hugging rounded corners, standing behind tables, and making sure door-frames come between you and the other humans. You can either wait to get the jump on someone, or to make up lost ground when chasing a target.